Project Workflow

Step 1: Repository Setup
Create a new Git repository and clone it to the local machine.

Step 2: Data Generation Script
Create a Python script (code.py) that generates a dataset and saves it 
as a CSV file inside a newly created "data" folder.

Step 3: Initial Commit
Perform a git add-commit-push before initializing DVC, so the code is 
tracked and backed up before data versioning begins.

Step 4: Install DVC
Run "pip install dvc" to install the DVC package.

Step 5: Initialize DVC
Run "dvc init" — this creates the .dvcignore file and the .dvc directory, 
setting up DVC tracking for the project.

Step 6: Create Remote Storage Directory
Run "mkdir S3" to create a new local directory named "S3" that will act 
as the remote storage location for DVC.

Step 7: Configure DVC Remote
Run "dvc remote add -d myremote S3" to register the "S3" folder as the 
default remote storage for DVC.

Step 8: Track Data with DVC
Run "dvc add data/" to start tracking the "data" folder with DVC.

This will prompt DVC to run:
- "git rm -r --cached 'data'"
- git commit -m "stop tracking data"

This step is necessary because Git was already tracking the "data/" 
folder initially. Since DVC will now handle version control for this 
folder, it must be removed from Git's tracking first.

Step 9: Re-track with DVC and Update Git
Run "dvc add data/" again — this creates a "data.dvc" file (a lightweight 
pointer file representing the tracked data). Then run 
"git add .gitignore data.dvc" to add the DVC pointer file and updated 
.gitignore to Git.

Step 10: Push Data to Remote Storage
Run "dvc commit" followed by "dvc push" to save and upload the current 
version of the data to the configured remote (S3).

Step 11: Commit First Data Version to Git
Perform a git add-commit-push to mark this stage as the first version 
(V1) of the data.

Step 12: Update Data (V2)
Make changes to code.py to append a new row to the dataset. Check what 
changed using "dvc status".

Step 13: Push Updated Data
Run "dvc commit" followed by "dvc push" again to save and upload the 
updated version of the data.

Step 14: Commit Second Data Version to Git
Perform a git add-commit-push to save this stage as version 2 (V2) of 
the data.

Step 15: Verify Sync Status
Check "dvc status" and "git status" to confirm both Git and DVC are 
fully up to date.

Step 16: Repeat for V3
Repeat Steps 12–15 to create and track version 3 (V3) of the data.